Work with durations (#2977)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/flux/v0.x/data-types/basic/duration.md

menu:
  flux_0_x:
    name: Duration
    parent: Basic types
weight: 201
flux/v0.x/tags: ["basic types", "data types"]
related:
  - /flux/v0.x/stdlib/universe/duration/
---

A **duration** type represents a length of time with nanosecond precision. 

**Type name**: `duration`

###### On this page:
- [Duration syntax](#duration-syntax)
- [Convert data types to durations](#convert-data-types-to-durations)
- [Operate on durations](#operate-on-durations)

## Duration syntax
Duration literals contain integers and unit specifiers.
Flux supports the following unit specifiers:

- `ns`: nanosecond
- `us`: microsecond
- `ms`: millisecond
- `s`: second
- `m`: minute
- `h`: hour
- `d`: day
- `w`: week
- `mo`: calendar month
- `y`: calendar year

```js
1ns // 1 nanosecond
1us // 1 microsecond
1ms // 1 millisecond
1s  // 1 second
1m  // 1 minute
1h  // 1 hour
1d  // 1 day
1w  // 1 week
1mo // 1 calendar month
1y  // 1 calendar year

3d12h4m25s // 3 days, 12 hours, 4 minutes, and 25 seconds
```

## Convert data types to durations
Use the [`duration()` function](/flux/v0.x/stdlib/universe/duration/) to convert
the following [basic types](/flux/v0.x/data-types/basic/) to durations:

> - **string**: must be formatted as a duration string.

Author: ```suggestion
- **string**: parsed as a duration string and converted to a duration.
```

- **int**: parsed as nanoseconds and converted to a duration.

> - **uint**: parsed as nanoseconds and converted to a duration.

Reviewer: Is duration string same as duration literal? and duration in lines 60 and 61 same as duration string?

Author: No a duration string would be `"1h30m"` (a duration formatted as string). A duration literal would be `1h30m` (the native literal syntax for durations).
